Observable Trends in PyCity Schools

There are several observable trends among the district-wide standardized test results of PyCity Schools. First, all of the top 5 performing schools, categorized by the percent of students who passed math and reading, are all charter schools. Likewise, all of the bottom 5 performing schools are district schools. The top 5 schools all had 90% or more students who passed math and reading, while the bottom 5 schools had only 52-53% of students who passed both. This is interesting since all of the district schools receive more money for their total budget and per student budget, however, it should be noted that the district schools are significantly larger than the charter schools (some are 2 to 3 times larger in student body).

Another observable trend is that among all of the high schools, the average math and reading scores for students was relatively the same amongst all 9th-12th grade students in the same school (within about 1-2%). This is interesting because it indicates the success rate in math and reading in every school does not significantly vary among grade levels. Overall, the average reading scores of each school are equal to or higher than the average math scores within the same high school.

In regards to school spending per student, the more money allocated per student, the lower the success rate in math and reading. The average scores for math and reading show a decrease as the money per student increases across PyCity Schools. There is a significant decrease in the percentage of students who passed math, reading, and both. The percent of students who passed reading and math decreased almost 37% as the amount per student increased $60-$90. This indicates that allocating more money per student per school does not guarantee an improved success rate (or test scores) in reading and math.

Similar to the trends in school spending per student, the larger the school the lower the success rate in reading, math, and both. Particularly it seems that schools with a population of over 2,000 students have a lower success rate. The overall percentage of students who passed both math and reading decreased almost 32% from schools with a population of under 1,000 students to schools with a population of over 2,000 students.

The final trend I observed in the scores categorized by school type is that overall, charter schools have a higher success rate in math, reading, and both subjects. The average math and reading scores for charter schools are higher in general. The percentage of students who passed reading and math is about 37% higher in charter schools than district schools in PyCity Schools.
